# TOP 10 HACKERS IN CYBERSECURITY

1. Kevin Mitnick
Kevin Mitnick holds the title as the world’s most famous hacker ever, with this title dating back to 1995 by the US Department of Justice.
Kevin Mitnick started hacking at an early age. He broke into the realm of public attention in the 1980s after he hacked into the North 
American Defense Command (NORAD). These events would inspire the movie War Games. Two other hacking instances propelled Mitnick to be the 
number one hacker of all time. First, in 1989, he hacked into Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) to make copies of their software. 
The DEC hacks led to his arrest by the FBI and conviction. Despite this high-profile arrest, while on release Mitnick famously hacked 
into Pacific Bell’s voicemail system, just to prove that he could.


2. Julian Assange
One of the most famous hacker in the world due to his international presence in media, Julian Assange offers a modern-day example of 
how much of an impact on the world an individual can have through hacking. Having been on Interpol’s most wanted list, many in the 
world would readily identify Assange as one of the biggest hackers in the world when taking into account the impact revelations his 
organization, Wikileaks, has released to the world. Through all this, Assange has been pending extradition to the United States to face 
charges for his involvement in the Wikileaks organization.


3. Gary McKinnon
In 2002, Gary gained notoriety in the world of computer hacking by perpetrating the “biggest military computer hack of all time.” 
Mr. McKinnon expressed honest intent for breaching these military networks to look for information regarding UFOs and other technologies 
useful for the public good. Despite all this, he was never convicted of a crime as the United Kingdom blocked his extradition to the United 
States to face criminal charges of up to 70 years in jail.


4. Adrian Lamo
Adrian came into the public spotlight for his hacking activities by breaching a content management system and adding in a fake quote 
from Attorney General John Ashcroft. Lamo became infamous for his notices to both the media and the victims of his hacks. To this point, 
Lamo took his hacking antics too far in 2002 when he broke into The New York Times’ network. This led to a sentence of two years probation and 
a fine of nearly $65,000.


5. Albert Gonzalez
According to NY Daily News, Mr. Gonzalez showed early signs of leadership during high school where he led a pack of troubled computer nerds. 
At age 22, the government arrested Mr. Gonzalez for fraud-related charges in relation to his activity stealing debit card information. 
This led to his cooperation with the government and eventually his collaboration with the Secret Service.


6. Matthew Bevan & Richard Pryce
As a team of British hackers, Bevan and Pryce became famous for hacking into military networks during the late 1990s. The two almost started 
a global conflict when they leaked The Korean Atomic Research Institute information about the American military system. Though Bevan claimed to 
have been looking for information about UFOs, the attacks on advanced military networks showed the vulnerability of these highly classified networks.


7. Jeanson James Ancheta
Jeanson took a unique approach to hacking compared to others on the list with his curiosity about “botnets.” These botnets consisted of 
software-based attacks that breached control of a computer system. Scaling this type of attack, by stringing together hundreds of different 
computer systems into a network, can have a devastating impact. By 2005, Jeanson successfully compromised nearly half a million machines. 
As outlined by Ars Technica, Mr. Ancheta used this network to profit by selling access to advertising companies and other hackers. Through these 
antics and specifically for breaking the Computer Fraud Abuse Act, the government charged him with a crime. His punishment would be a 57-month prison 
term and a $75,000 fine, marking the first time a hacker saw jail time for use of a botnet.


8. Michael Calce aka MafiaBoy
Michael became famous for a series of distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on a variety of corporate networks. First, Mr. Calce 
leveraged a network of university computers to take down the leading search engine at the time, Yahoo. Shortly after, he attacked Dell, eBay, CNN, 
and Amazon using his now infamous DDoS attack. This attack brought a surprise notice to corporate America, shocked to see billion-dollar businesses 
shut down so easily. The concern for corporate interest led to a series of legislation changes focused on cybercrime.


9. Kevin Poulsen
Starting as a teenager, Kevin hacked into ARPANET, the Pentagon’s computer network. The attack was quickly discovered, leading to Mr. Poulsen’s arrest. 
Despite being caught, the government let the young Mr. Poulsen off with a warning. By the end of the decade, in 1988, another hack executed by Mr. Poulsen 
landed him in hot water with the government. To avoid being arrested, he went underground and continued to hack government secrets. By 1990, he famously 
broke into a radio station to secure a contest for a brand new Porsche, a vacation, and $20,000. Since then, he has been arrested and restricted from using 
a computer for three years as a form of punishment. Today, Poulsen works as a white-hat hacker and journalist, writing for popular publications such as 
Wired and The Daily Beast.


10. Aaron Swartz
Aaron Swartz famously helped start the popular online social network Reddit and created a cascade of attention throughout his time as a hacktivist. 
In 2011, the government arrested and charged Swartz with hacking into MIT’s network to download a massive cache of JSTOR academic data. These charges 
eventually evolved into two federal counts of wire fraud and nearly a dozen violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act with a maximum penalty of a 
million dollars and 35 years in prison.




